1. Set or Check Active Project
Set project:

bash
gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID
Check current project:

bash
gcloud config get-value project
Purpose: Ensure all commands run in the correct Google Cloud project context.

2. Authenticate User
Login:

bash
gcloud auth login
Purpose: Authenticate your Google user account to gain permissions for GCP operations.

Error: Permission errors despite Owner role → often resolved by re-authenticating.

3. Check Enabled APIs
List enabled APIs:

bash
gcloud services list
List available APIs:

bash
gcloud services list --available
Enable API:

bash
gcloud services enable SERVICE_NAME
Typical required APIs:

storage.googleapis.com (Cloud Storage)

iam.googleapis.com (IAM)

cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com (Project management)

Purpose: Confirm necessary APIs are enabled for resource management.

4. Make Bucket or Objects Public Using gsutil
Make entire bucket objects public (read access):

bash
gsutil -m acl ch -r -u AllUsers:R gs://BUCKET_NAME
Make single object public:

bash
gsutil acl ch -u AllUsers:R gs://BUCKET_NAME/OBJECT_NAME
Make future objects public by default:

bash
gsutil defacl set public-read gs://BUCKET_NAME
Purpose: Grant public read access to storage objects.

Error:

AccessDeniedException 403 storage.objects.list → your account lacks permission to list or modify bucket ACLs.

Solution: Request or assign proper IAM roles (see below).

5. Grant IAM Role to User (requires existing permissions)
Grant role to user:

bash
gsutil iam ch user:USER_EMAIL:ROLE gs://BUCKET_NAME
Example: Grant Storage Object Admin role:

bash
gsutil iam ch user:agarwaldisha294@gmail.com:objectAdmin gs://healthcare-bucket-22032025
Purpose: Assign specific permissions to users on bucket-level IAM.

Error:

AccessDeniedException 403 storage.buckets.getIamPolicy → your account does not have permission to modify IAM policies.

Solution: Must be Project Owner or have permission to modify IAM. Request access from Org or Project Admin.

6. Identify and Request Admin Access
How to request:
Contact project owner/admin and request roles:

Project Owner (full admin permissions)

Project Editor (broad permissions)

Storage Admin (for storage-specific actions)

Verify IAM roles:
View in Cloud Console → IAM & Admin → check roles assigned to your email.

Error:

Lacking permission to perform actions despite being project “owner” shown in Cloud Console → often caused by stale authentication, wrong project context, or organizational policy restrictions.

Solution: Re-authenticate and confirm project; escalate to Organization Admin if needed.

Common Errors Summary
Error Message	Cause	Resolution
403 storage.objects.list	Missing permission to list bucket objects	Assign Storage Object Viewer or higher
403 storage.buckets.getIamPolicy	Missing permission to retrieve or modify IAM policies	Assign Project Owner or equivalent
403 storage.objects.get	Missing read permission for specific objects	Assign Storage Object Viewer to user or public ACLs
Connection timed out or CommunicationsException (MySQL)	Network or server connectivity issue	Check MySQL server status, network/firewall
404 Not found: Dataset	Missing BigQuery dataset	Confirm dataset existence and permissions
This documentation provides a clear and structured reference of commands, their purposes, and how to troubleshoot common permission errors encountered managing Google Cloud Storage and project-level access.
